= mongodb-graphite 

A Ruby client to retrieve statistics from a MongoDB cluster and push them to either Graphite or Statsd.

= Usage

 Usage: mongodb-graphite {SERVER_NAME} {PORT} [options]
 
 SERVER_NAME = Target server for data collection. Optional if collector is set to none.
 PORT        = Port for target server for data collection. Defaults to 2003 for Graphite and 8125 for statsd.
 
 Options:
     -c, --collector COLLECTOR        Stats collection type. One of graphite, statsd, none.
                                      Defaults to none. 'None' simply primpts to stdout.
         --host MONGOS                Hostname for mongos instance. Defaults to localhost.
     -p, --port PORT                  Port number for mongos instance. Defaults to 27017.
 
 Metric Path Options:
         --host-trim VALUE            Value to trim from the end of the hostname.
                                      May be specified multiple times.
         --prefix PREFIX              Prefix to prepend to all metric paths.
         --suffix SUFFIX              Suffix to append to all metric paths.
         --host-prefix PREFIX         Prefix to prepend before the host name in metric paths.
                                      Has no impact if the hostname is excluded.
         --host-suffix SUFFIX         Suffix to append after the host name in metric paths.
                                      Has no impact if the hostname is excluded.
         --[no]reverse-hostname       Enables/Disables reversing the hostname when creating the
                                      metric path. Defaults to reversing the hostname.
         --exclude-hostname           Exclude the hostname entirely when creating the metric path.
 
 Common options:
         --help                       Show this message

== Metric Paths

By default, mongodb-graphite takes the hostname, reverses it and appends the name of the metric from MongoDB. For example, the the default metric path for <em>opcounters.command</em> from <em>mongo1.example.com</em> looks like the following:

  com.example.mongo1.opcounters.command

=== Hostname

If you want to remove the domain portion of the hostname, you can use the <tt>--host-trim</tt> option:

  $ ./mongodb-graphite --host-trim example.com
 
Produces:

  mongo1.opcounters.command
  
You can specify <tt>--host-trim</tt> multiple times if you have multiple paths you want to remove. All <tt>--host-trim</tt> options will be applied in the order in which they are specified. 

Use the <tt>--no-reverse</tt> option to prevent mongodb-graphite from reversing the hostname when creating the metric path:

  $ ./mongodb-graphite --no-reverse
  mongo1.example.com.opcounters.command

You can also exclude the hostname entirely by using the <tt>--exclude-hostname</tt>:

  $ ./mongodb-graphite --exclude-hostname
  opcounters.command
  
  $ ./mongodb-graphite --prefix mongo --exclude-hostname
  mongo.opcounters.command

Note that the <tt>--host-prefix</tt> and <tt>--host-suffix</td> options will be ignored if <tt>--exclude-hostname</tt> is specified.

=== Prefixes/Suffixes

You can add arbitrary prefixes and suffixes using the <tt>--prefix</tt> and <tt>--suffix</tt>. Prefixes are added before anything else in the metric path. Suffixes are added after anything else in the metric path:

  $ ./mongodb-graphite --prefix foo
  foo.com.example.mongo1.opcounters.command
  
  $ ./mongodb-graphite --prefix foo.bar
  foo.bar.com.example.mongo1.opcounters.command
  
  $ ./mongodb-graphite --suffix foo
  com.example.com.mongo1.opcounters.command.foo
  
  $ ./mongodb-graphite --suffix foo.bar
  com.example.mongo1.opcounters.command.foo.bar
  
  $ ./mongodb-graphite --prefix production --suffix mongo
  production.com.example.mongo1.opcounters.command.mongo

You can add arbitrary prefixes and suffixes around the hostname itself using the <tt>--host-prefix</tt> and <tt>--host-suffix</tt> options. A <tt>host-prefix</tt> is added after any general prefix, but before the hostname. A <tt>host-suffix</tt> is added after the hostname, but before any the metric name itself. If used without <tt>--prefix</tt>, <tt>host-prefix</tt> has the same effect as a general prefix. They become more useful when combined with a general prefix/suffix:

  $ ./mongodb-graphite --host-prefix foo
  foo.com.example.mongo1.opcounters.command
  
  $ ./mongodb-graphite --host-suffix foo
  com.example.mongo1.foo.opcounters.command
  
  $ ./mongodb-graphite --prefix prod --host-prefix mongo --host-suffix mongodb
  prod.mongo.com.example.mongo1.mongodb.opcounters.command
  prod.mongo.com.example.mongo2.mongodb.opcounters.command

= Links

* http://www.mongodb.org
* http://graphite.wikidot.com
* https://github.com/etsy/statsd
* https://github.com/github/statsd-ruby